Cyber Security Attack case study:
Denial-of-Service->>
How is the attack done?
A Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack is an attack meant to shut down a machine or network,
making it inaccessible to its intended users. DoS attacks accomplish this by flooding the
target with traffic, or sending it information that triggers a crash. In both instances, the DoS
attack deprives legitimate users i.e. account holders of the service or resource they
expected.
Victims of DoS attacks often target web servers of high-profile organizations such as
banking, commerce, and media companies, or government and trade organizations. Though
DoS attacks do not typically result in the theft or loss of significant information or other
assets, they can cost the victim a great deal of time and money to handle.
There are two general methods of DoS attacks: flooding services or crashing services. Flood
attacks occur when the system receives too much traffic for the server to buffer, causing
them to slow down and eventually stop. Popular flood attacks include:
Buffer overflow attacks – the most common DoS attack. The concept is to send more traffic
to a network address than the programmers have built the system to handle. It includes the
attacks listed below, in addition to others that are designed to exploit bugs specific to
certain applications or networks
ICMP flood – leverages misconfigured network devices by sending spoofed packets that
ping every computer on the targeted network, instead of just one specific machine. The
network is then triggered to amplify the traffic
SYN flood – sends a request to connect to a server, but never completes the handshake.
Continues until all open ports are saturated with requests and none are available for
legitimate users to connect to.
Other DoS attacks simply exploit vulnerabilities that cause the target system or service to
crash. In these attacks, input is sent that takes advantage of bugs in the target that
subsequently crash or severely destabilize the system, so that it can’t be accessed or used.
An additional type of DoS attack is the Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack. A DDoS
attack occurs when multiple systems orchestrate a synchronized DoS attack to a single
target. The essential difference is that instead of being attacked from one location, the
target is attacked from many locations at once. The distribution of hosts that defines a DDoS
provide the attacker multiple advantages:
• He can leverage the greater volume of machine to execute a seriously disruptive
attack
• The location of the attack is difficult to detect due to the random distribution of
attacking systems (often worldwide)
• It is more difficult to shut down multiple machines than one
• The true attacking party is very difficult to identify, as they are disguised behind
many (mostly compromised) systems
Modern security technologies have developed mechanisms to defend against most forms of
DoS attacks, but due to the unique characteristics of DDoS, it is still regarded as a higher
concern to organizations that fear being targeted by such an attack.
How Long Does DOS attack persists?
Depending on the severity of an attack, resources could be offline for 24 hours, multiple
days or even a week. In fact, a survey by Kaspersky Lab revealed that one in five DDoS
attacks can last for days or even weeks, attesting their sophistication and serious threat
posed to all businesses.
These attacks can persist for weeks; the longest continuous period noted so far lasted 38
days. This attack involved approximately 50+ petabits (50,000+ terabits) of malicious traffic.
According to the IDG report, 36 percent of companies experiencing more than five DDoS
attacks suffer an average downtime of seven to 12 hours.
Prevention->>
1. Know your network’s traffic
Every organization’s infrastructure has typical Internet traffic patterns — know yours. When
you understand your organization’s normal traffic pattern, you’ll have a baseline. That way,
when unusual activity occurs, you can identify the symptoms of a DDoS attack.
2. Create a Denial of Service Response Plan
By defining a plan in advance, you’ll be able to respond quickly and efficiently when your
network is targeted. This can take some planning; the more complex your infrastructure, the
more detailed your DDoS response plan will be.
3. Make your network resilient
Your infrastructure should be as resilient as possible against DDoS attacks. That means more
than firewalls because some DDoS attacks target firewalls.
4. Practice good cyber hygiene
It goes without saying that your users should be engaging in best security practices,
including changing passwords, secure authentication practices, knowing to avoid phishing
attacks, and so on.
5. Scale up your bandwidth
If DDoS is creating a traffic jam in your network, one way to make that traffic jam less severe
is to widen the highway. By adding more bandwidth, your organization will be able to
absorb more to absorb a larger volume of traffic. This solution won’t stop all DDoS attacks,
however.
6. Take advantage of anti-DDoS hardware and software
DDoS attacks have been around for a while and some kinds of attacks are very common.
There are plenty of products that are prepared to repel or mitigate certain protocol and
application attacks, for example. Take advantage of those tools.
7. Move to the cloud
While this won’t eliminate DDoS attacks, moving to the cloud can mitigate attacks. The
cloud has more bandwidth than on-premise resources, for example, and the nature of the
cloud means many servers are not located in the same place.
8. Know the symptoms of an attack
Your network slows down inexplicably. The website shuts down. All of a sudden, you’re
getting a lot of spam. These can all be signs of a DDoS attack. If so, the organization should
investigate.
9. Outsource your DDoS protection
Some companies offer DDoS-as-a-Service. Some of these companies specialize in scaling
resources to respond to an attack, others bolster defenses, and still, others mitigate the
damage of an ongoing attack.
10. Monitor for unusual activity
Once you know your typical activity and the signs of an attack, monitor your network for
odd traffic. By monitoring traffic in real-time, your organization will be able to spot a DDoS
attack when it starts and mitigate it.